# qss20_covidtweetproject
Seba Maccias, Emma Nguyen, David Mysiuk

During times of global crisis, social media platforms like Twitter become essential channels for information dissemination, expression, and social connection. The COVID-19 pandemic underscored this phenomenon, with a noticeable surge in positive tweets as people turned to digital platforms to maintain social connections during lockdowns. This project investigates the motivations, behaviors, and characteristics of Twitter users during the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly focusing on the #BlackLivesMatter and #StopAsianHate movements. Utilizing a dataset of tweets related to these movements, the study examines the impact of current events on new account creation, tweet volume, sentiment, and bot activity. This project found that there is a correlation between account creation, tweet volume, and current events, especially surrounding those events that directly impact the movements. Bots were responsible for a heavy portion of the #StopAsianHate tweets, but the #BlackLivesMatter movement was primarily driven through human users. Although both subgroups created generally neutral sentiment analyses, #StopAsianHate tends to lean towards more negative sentiments. Through this analysis, the project provides a deeper understanding of Twitter activity during significant social and political events amid a global crisis.

Directories and Files: 
1. code - contains the script used to conduct this study. The document starts off with an exploratory exercise, then assesses account creation using multiple time series plots. The code find unique rows by user ID and screen name to define an independent account, assuming one does not change their screen name over time. Then, it assesses tweet volume using multiple time series plots. The code assesses a unique tweet by finding unique rows by the tweet's text, assuming multiple people will not post the same exact thing. Then, it conducts a sentiment analysis using both TextBlob and SentimentIntensityAnalyzer. For the SentimentIntensityAnalyzer, the code randomly pulls subsets of 500 from each subgroup, #BLM and #StopAsianHate, due to limited computing storage. Finally, it uses the bot .csv to assess proportions of bots within the dataset. The code identifies bots in the dataframe by screenname. 
2. data - contains a .txt file of links to the data. BLM_StopAsianHate.pkl is the overall dataset, and raw_scores-english.csv contains the dictionary of bots.
3. output - contains all the graphs created by the code
4. FinalMilestone1.pdf - preliminary project proposal and progress report.
